# Lisp Standard Library and Runtime

This library is designed to be used as a runtime for C code generated by the lispc Rust package. The supported LISP
dialect is roughly related to Scheme chiefly in its utilization of lambda calculus and relatively simple type structure.
As this is still a primarily infant project, the specific details pertaining to functionality and specification are
subject to change at any time. This document serves to try and keep up with such changes and provide a rough overview of
how the runtime works. Please check the README associated with the Rust project for semantic details.

When reading the code itself, you may notice some comments labelled `NOTE`. These are there to explain certain quirks
that may appear when attempting to use the library, as well as the reasoning behind leaving those quirks.

## Data Types

### Numbers

Integers are the least precise type. Rational numbers are a super set of integers stored in their simplest form. Real 
numbers are a super set of rationals, and represent standard 64 bit floating point numbers. Complex numbers a superset
of real numbers stored using two floating point real numbers.

### Booleans

Primitive true and false constants. There's no requirement for implementation other than the fact that they are distinct
from other data types. "Truthyness" is a factor in this language, however only `nil` and `false` are considered to be 
not true.

### Nil

`nil` is the LISP equivalent of NULL. `nil` is equivalent only to itself regardless of strictness. In use as a value, it
is equivalent to an empty list. The consequence of this is that `(eqv? nil (list))` and `(eqv? nil '())` are both true.

### Symbols
Symbols are to be interned upon creation. This may eliminate the need for keywords, but we'll have to see when we get 
there.

### Strings

Strings are stored in a PASCAL format, containing a character buffer and the length of the string. The null termination
of a LISP string is not defined and should not be relied upon. When dealing with normal C string functions, be sure to
use the associated length. Only ASCII characters are officially supported due to the need to generate C code.

### Lists

Lists are stored in memory as linked lists where the final element points to `NULL`, a sentinel value chosen due to not
being a valid LISP value. Empty lists are thus saved as `{.car = NULL, .cdr = NULL}`.

Improper lists (i.e. Scheme pairs) may be used with standard list functions as well.

The destruction of a list follows from the start of the list along to the final element. As a result, the deletion of a
circular list is not well defined.

## Function Conventions

### Error Handling

In order to avoid raising and handling traps, all lisp functions should return a pointer to a lisp value. If the
function call results in an error, the NULL pointer is returned. Functions that do not return any value should return
the NIL static constant. Since the library is built under the assumption that NULL pointers are never provided,
attempts to access them will simply crash. This behavior is not ideal, but it will be dealt with in time once enough 
debugging information can be added into the program. It may be worthwhile to have a debugging intermediate function that
checks for NULL returns and gracefully terminates the program, while more optimized compilations skip this step and hard
crash on failure. 

## Other Minutiae

I need some kind of name other than just "LISP". Considering that the compiler is going to be written in Rust, I'm
thinking about a name like Steam, mostly so I can call the runtime the Steam Engine.